Synonyms APIs - Synonyms Sets documentation (#98015)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/synonyms/apis/delete-synonyms-set.asciidoc

[[delete-synoyms-set]]
=== Delete Synonyms Set

beta::[]

++++
<titleabbrev>Delete Synonyms Set</titleabbrev>
++++

Deletes a Synonyms Set.

[[delete-synonyms-set-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`DELETE _synonyms/<synonyms_set>`

[[delete-synonyms-set-prereqs]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

* Requires the `manage_search_synonyms` cluster privilege.

> * You can only delete a Synonym Set that is not in use by any <<analysis-synonym-graph-tokenfilter,synonym graph token filters>> and <<analysis-synonym-tokenfilter,synonym token filters>> that are included in an analyzer. See <<delete-synonym-set-analyzer-requirements>> for more information.

Reviewer: I _think_ we want to lowercase `synonym(s) sets`. Also, I think we want to be consistent with pluralization throughout our documentation and refer to it as a `synonyms set`? (This comment applies throughout the PR)

```suggestion
* You can only delete a synonyms set that is not in use by any <<analysis-synonym-graph-tokenfilter,synonym graph token filters>> and <<analysis-synonym-tokenfilter,synonym token filters>> that are included in an analyzer. See <<delete-synonym-set-analyzer-requirements>> for more information.
```

Author: I'm happy to change Synonyms Sets to lowercase. I was taking Search Applications example for this one - I'd like to have guidance from the docs team as I'm not sure of what should be the correct form 👍 

I've fixed the plurals, thanks for catching it!

Reviewer: The general guidance is that product names should be Upper Cased and "things" should be lower cased. Search Applications is a weird case because it refers to the branded product name (Search Applications) but at the end of the day it's a search application. 

Now that I've confused you more I'll cede to the docs team 😂

Reviewer 2: My official docs opinion :smile: : plural and lowercase

Author: Thank you both! 🙇

Author: I'll create a separate PR for doing code changes for being consistent with the plurals - I'd prefer to keep this PR as focused on docs as possible

> * You can only delete a Synonyms Set that is not in use by any <<analysis-synonym-graph-tokenfilter,synonym graph token filters>> and <<analysis-synonym-tokenfilter,synonym token filters>> that are included in an analyzer. See <<delete-synonym-set-analyzer-requirements>> for more information.

Reviewer 3: I think we can say this shortly: 

You can only delete a Synonyms Set that is not in use by any index analyzer.

Author: Changed!

[[delete-synonyms-set-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

`<synonyms_set>`::
(Required, string)
Synonyms set identifier to delete.

[[delete-synonyms-set-response-codes]]
==== {api-response-codes-title}

`400`::

> The `synonyms_set` identifier was not provided, or the Synonyms Set can't be deleted because it does not meet the <<delete-synonym-set-analyzer-requirements>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `synonyms_set` identifier was not provided, or the Synonyms Set can't be deleted because it does not meet the <<delete-synonym-set-analyzer-requirements, specified requirements>>.
```

Author: that looks better!

`404` (Missing resources)::
No Synonyms Set with the identifier `synonyms_set` was found.

[[delete-synonyms-set-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

The following example deletes a Synonyms Set called `my-synonyms-set`:

[source,console]

> ----

Reviewer: You probably want to add some tests here, which will include some setup (to create the index that will be deleted). [These instructions](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/tree/main/docs#test-code-snippets) provide a good getting started point.

Author: Nice! I'll give them a go, thanks!

DELETE _synonyms/my-synonyms-set
----

[discrete]
[[delete-synonym-set-analyzer-requirements]]

> ==== Delete Synonyms Set analyzer requirements

Reviewer 3: I am not sure if we need all these details and the whole [[delete-synonym-set-analyzer-requirements]] section.

Author: I think it's important to explain why users can't delete a synonyms set. It took me a while to understand it, and other members of the team as well.

Maybe it's a bit too much technical detail, but I would err on the side of providing more information that justifies the decision.

Synonyms Sets can be used in  <<analysis-synonym-graph-tokenfilter,synonym graph token filters>> and <<analysis-synonym-tokenfilter,synonym token filters>>.
These synonym filters can be used as part of <<search-analyzer, search analyzers>>.

> Analyzers need to be loaded when an index is restored (such as when a node starts, or the index becomes open).

Reviewer: Worth linking to https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/search-analyzer.html here?

Author: it can be a bit redundant as it's linked in the previous line 🤔 . What does the docs team think about repeating links on adjacent paragraphs, should we do that?

Reviewer: Hmm that's a fair point 👍

Even if the analyzer is not used on any field mapping, it still needs to be loaded on the index recovery phase.

> In case analyzers can't be loaded, the index would not be made available and the cluster status would become <<red-yellow-cluster-status,red or yellow>> as index shards would not be available.

Reviewer: Not 100% sure on this wording, but it seems a bit more concise? 

```suggestion
If any analyzers cannot be loaded, the index becomes available and the cluster status becomes <<red-yellow-cluster-status,red or yellow>> as index shards are not available.
```

Author: I like that! Did a minor correction and updated it 💯

To prevent that, Synonyms Sets that are used in analyzers can't be deleted.
A delete request in this case will return a `400` response code with the following error message:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "error": {
    "root_cause": [
      {
        "type": "illegal_argument_exception",
        "reason": "Synonyms set [my-synonyms-set] cannot be deleted as it is used in the following indices: index-1, index-2"
      }
    ],
    "type": "illegal_argument_exception",
    "reason": "Synonyms set [my-synonyms-set] cannot be deleted as it is used in the following indices: index-1, index-2"
  },
  "status": 400
}
----
// TEST[skip:TBD]

> In order to remove a Synonyms Set that is being used in a token filter used by an analyzer, the only option would be to remove the index that contains the analyzer.

Reviewer 3: This point is very important, and must be included.

Also we can shorten things: "that is being used in a token filter used by an analyzer," => "used by an analyzer"

Author: This is more direct, adding that.
